Addison Bunn
Text Analysis Response 
	I topic modeled the sample data titled “Chaucertxt” for this assignment. I used terminal and mallet to help me topic model this text with 10, 30, then 60 topics. I noticed that the couple times I ran it through with 10 topics, removing stop words each time, the process took 4 minutes and 20 seconds. For 30 topics, it took about 4 minutes and 45 seconds, and for 60 topics it took about 5 minutes and 20 seconds. I will explain which number of topics I found to be the most significant and use my research to explore the possible limitations and benefits of topic modeling. 
	Before I explore what I analyzed about the differences in results I saw from using different numbers of topics, I think its important to note that many of the words that came up in my research were not in modern English so it was hard for me to distinguish what I should deem as stop words. I did my best to weed out unfamiliar words that looked like pronouns because these words do not carry enough importance to be considered in my data set. Some of the most common and recurring words I found in my data set were human, poem, Chaucer, medieval, narrator, religion, and literary. As we learned about in class, topic modeling is a way of working through an article with a set of highlighters to identify the most important and thematic words (Brett, JDH, 2012). So, with the knowledge that the words being pulled out are the ones that are most strongly associated with the piece being analyzed, I was able to derive that Chaucer is a text that was written in medieval language with a poetic literary structure. In addition, I was given the names of some of the key characters in the story and was able to understand that the story had strong religious ties because of the words that appeared in my corpus such as religion, church, and god. 
	I decided that the most telling of my topic modeling experiments was when I ran it through with 60 topics. The words in the data sets that were generated in this particular instance had a much stronger correlation than the lines that came up with 30 or 10 topics. Take, for example, my first line in my data set. It reads, “narrative narrator structure story art rhetorical plot structural frame characters aesthetic genre pattern work experience reader events dramatic literacy”. These words all, with maybe one or two exceptions, are associated with the description of the type of work that Chaucer is and how it is structured. Now lets compare the strong correlation we found in that particular line of data to the first line of data uncovered when we ran it through with only 10 topics. The first line reads, “tale Chaucer Canterbury tales man wife prologue story pp pardoner nat host merchant moral pilgrims al lines general monk”. I didn’t see that strong a correlation between the words in this data set. For example, tale, man, moral, lines, and monk can all be categorized in completely different areas. 
	One limitation of topic modeling is the fact that expressions that are multiple words cannot be detected (Blevins, personal blog, 09-09-2009). Another limitation can be that mallet is unable to recognize different variations of the same word, or if two words are synonyms it is impossible for computers to understand that they do indeed have the same meaning. When looking at a creative, poetic piece such as Chaucer, many people in the department of figurative language would consider the fact that topic modeling is breaking apart and taking away from the cohesive figurative meaning of the piece as a disadvantage (Rhody, JDH, 2012). On the contrary, an advantage of topic modeling is that we are able to identify major themes and trends of a piece of literature without having to go through the entire work and examine it closely. Also, because topic modeling is specialized for lengthy literary works, it is extremely useful in that in provides people with a tool to analyze and interpret the contents of a particularly large collection of texts without requiring them to dedicate a lot of their time. 
  
 https://github.com/introdh2016/response1_textanalysis/blob/master/topicmodel60.jpg?raw=true
